---
publish: true
description: Why are we doing this to ourselves?
created: "[[2026-01-11]]"
modified: 2026-01-12T19:24:57.414+02:00
published: "[[2026-01-11]]"
cssclasses: ""
parent:
  - "[[Artificial Intelligence]]"
state:
  - evergreen
date: "[[2026-01-11]]"
relates:
  - "[[Corporate]]"
  - "[[On The Governance Of AI]]"
  - "[[Capitalism]]"
opposes:
  - "[[Common Sense]]"
kind: blog
---

Where are we heading? An essay, with questions and little answers. 

Artificial Intelligence is getting better and better, yet [[On The Governance Of AI\|the lack of any oversight]] is shocking. 

Do we really want a world where there is no humanity in things we do? Our videos, music, pictures, texts, creations and in my case code, all generated by AI?

People like to think that if you are not joining "them", then you are going to get left behind. Getting old means it's hard for you to [[Adapt\|adapt]], no? What if I want to be left behind a little bit? What if I want to remain ignorant so I can be more unique? 

What if I'm worried that the next generation will have no one to teach them anymore? What is the point of studying if AI can do it "better" and "faster"? Is this speed beneficial to you or is it beneficial for the corporations that are milking you?

I don't want to support projects that are AI made. How could I, when it's ruining my life and my planet? Can I justify results produced on the back and suffering of my home? We can't feed the homeless, or we don't want to? It's not profitable. 

What happens to my juniors at work? Who gets to teach them? What is the next generation of developers going to do then? How can they truly produce results for critical systems when they don't know what they are doing? Are we to leave that responsibility fully to AI? 

So, the aftermath of Artificial Intelligence dominating our lives? 
- No income for people, as people have no jobs
- Artists get discouraged
- Corporations take more control of our lives
- [[Intellectual Property]] gets taken and abused 
- Nobody there to train the next generations
- [[The New (And Improved) Knowledge Silo\|New knowledge silos]]

